---
title:      "OpenLoco version 26.04"
tagline:    "Release blog post"
author:     "Aaron van Geffen"
date:       2026-04-24 16:30 +0900
layout:     single
classes:    wide
categories: news
---

OpenLoco v26.04 is out! This month's release focuses on ...

What follows is a quick summary of the new features and bug fixes for this month.


## Ctrl+C, Ctrl+V (#3649)
@duncanspumpkin


## Fix auto layout for cars that are centered (#3572)
@Hammster


## Fix Negative Loan (#3688)
@duncanspumpkin


## Cheat Keep cargo on pickup/modify	ethan-xd (#3591)


## Jukebox improvements

@LeeSpork Add onPause() and onUnpause(); fix music resuming after saving when paused (#3185)

@LeeSpork Add title screen music to jukebox (#3639)

@AaronVanGeffen Move jukebox into its own window (#3707)



## Replace remaining users of var_83C with rowCount (#3709)
## Rewrite company list to use rowInfo and stable_sort (#3705)
## Rewrite station list to use rowInfo and stable_sort (#3704)
## Rewrite industry list to use rowInfo and stable_sort (#3703)
## Rewrite town list to use rowInfo and stable_sort (#3702)
## Rewrite vehicle lists to use rowInfo and stable_sort (#3701)
@AaronVanGeffen


## Add more sorting options when building vehicles
@ethan-xd (#3594)
## Build vehicle window cleanup (#3710)
@AaronVanGeffen


## Name a few more previously unnamed things

@duncanspumpkin named the `awaitingCargoTransfer` flag, placed on vehicle components
[(#3621)](https://github.com/OpenLoco/OpenLoco/pull/3621).
As the name suggets, this indicates a vehicle component is waiting for a cargo transfer.
When placed on vehicle head structs it indicates that the vehicle _cannot_ wait at the station for
further loading. In the future, we would like to split this off to a different flag to make
cargo loading more flexible.

When it comes to buildings, we recently discovered buildings are categorised into what we now call
_amenity categories_. Towns use these to decide what buildings to keep or replace, and indeed to build.
So far, we've named religious buildings (e.g. churches), hotels, parks, courthouses,
parks, and landmarks. There is room for three more categories, but no vanilla objects seem to use them.
In fact, most vanilla buildings aren't assigned into any of these categories!
Either way, it's interesting to still discover more of these subtle, underlying mechanisms.

Objects that claim to belong to any of these newly discovered amenity categories now have their
category validated. If an invalid value is found, the object now can no longer be loaded to prevent crashes
[(#3623)](https://github.com/OpenLoco/OpenLoco/pull/3623). A similar check is now applied to the building
generator function id associated with miscellaneous buildings.

There are still quite a few unnamed flags and variables left. If you feel like joining in on the naming effort,
please reach out to us on Discord!


## Localisation improvements

@erdikayaTR has improved the Turkish localisation, adding translations for newer strings and clarifying older ones
[(#3712)](https://github.com/OpenLoco/OpenLoco/pull/3712).

Like Locomotion, OpenLoco support custom keyboard shortcuts. @LeeSpork noticed one of the lesser used modifier keys,
the `Menu` key, was not being localised. This has now been fixed [(#3467)](https://github.com/OpenLoco/OpenLoco/pull/3467).


## Fix Incorrect scaffolding preview roof (#3699)
@duncanspumpkin


## Fix Crash when starting bus behind bus (#3698)
@duncanspumpkin


## Fix New signals not correctly updating network (#3697)
@duncanspumpkin

