---
title:      "OpenLoco version 26.02"
tagline:    "Release blog post"
author:     "Aaron van Geffen"
date:       2026-02-28 09:30 +0200
layout:     single
classes:    wide
categories: news
---

OpenLoco v26.02 is out! This month's release mostly focuses on bugfixes. People with an eye on our Discord will know
some cool new features are in the works, but they haven't landed yet this month. The dev team ended up rather busy with Life,
but that just means there is more to look forward to in the upcoming month!

What follows is a quick summary of the bugs and their fixes.

## Crash when hovering over stations with the order tab open (#2205)

We kept getting weird crash reports that we couldn't quite place, somehow involving the vehicle order manager.
It had us puzzled for a while, until @Sashna on Discord came up with a reliable way to reproduce the issue.
As it turns out, there was a situation where a pointer to the end of the order table could be reused, leading to
it being incremented past the end of the table! Once this was diagnosed, Duncan was able to come up with
a fix relatively quickly.

## The vsync setting is not saved correctly (#3626)

In [the previous release](https://github.com/OpenLoco/OpenLoco/releases/v26.01/),
we introduced an optional vsync cap for the game's frame rate.
Ironically, the setting was not saving correctly, leading to an uncapped frame rate after restarting the game.
This was a minor issue to resolve, so at least now it actually persists!

## Constant alternating colors on vehicles and other things (#3627)

We also introduced [parallel, multi-threaded rendering](/news/2026/01/openloco-v26.01.html#parallel-drawing)
in the previous release. However, the remap colours in the game were still _sharing_ a palette buffer.
This led to a race condition for e.g. recoloured vehicles, meaning they would alternate between colours
in certain situations. Ironically, this was flagged as a potential issue ahead of time, but the relevant
'thread local' keyword had not been applied. After we identified that this was indeed the cause,
it was another one-line fix.

## macOS builds are missing OpenGraphics objects (#3629)

As of December 2025, we have native builds for macOS again. However, as it turns out, the application bundles
were missing our OpenGraphics objects entirely! CMake wizard Duncan dug into this and found the cause to be a bug
to do with CMake presets! A workaround was promptly applied, and our macOS builds now ship with OpenGraphics objects!

## Can click beyond last item in town and industry list windows, opening invalid windows (#3652)

@LeeSpork identified an issue where the town and industry list windows would let the player select 'items'
where there were none, just after the end of the list. This led to opening invalid windows, often triggering a crash.
Turns out the relevant checks were using `>` instead of `>=` to check bounds. Foiled again, off-by-one errors!
