---
title:      "OpenLoco version 26.01"
tagline:    "Release blog post"
author:     "Aaron van Geffen"
date:       2026-01-30 16:00:00 +0000
layout:     single
classes:    wide
categories: news

---

OpenLoco v26.01 is out! Last month we finally finished making the game binary standalone this
means we now enter a bit of a refactoring and general code cleanup phase (codewise).

Over the next few months the refactoring will be aimed towards getting ready for a new save format
(NSF). For the NSF we will be aiming to increase the map size limits and generally most other
limits. It is not a simple task of just changing some constants though so don't expect this to be
completed for a while. Related to the NSF we will also be looking at introducing a new object
format (NOF). The NOF will allow removing limitations of the DAT format and will hopefully be more
human readable. Much like the NSF this will take quite some time to fully decide how it will work.

Even when we move to a NSF and NOF we will still maintain support for the old formats in various
ways. So don't worry about losing your favourite custom objects.

Other areas for improvement are path finding. I suspect that we wont be able to improve the land
path finding just yet without an NSF but the water path finding should be achievable. If you have
knowledge on path finding algorithms it would be great to hear from you.

## OpenLoco

### Parallel drawing

@ZehMatt added parallel drawing support to OpenLoco. For the first time having a multi-core CPU
will actually improve performance in OpenLoco. The way drawing works in OpenLoco is that the
window is split up into columns of 32 pixels wide (the width of a tile). Each column is drawn
independently of the others. This is trivially parallelisable and @ZehMatt really showed this as
the number of lines of code required to add parallel drawing was just 28!
(#2825)

Do keep in mind though that drawing is not always the bottleneck of OpenLoco. Just running the
simulation can be very CPU intensive and that is not something we can easily parallelise at this time.

Related to this change @lapingvino on Discord mentioned this change caused dependency issues on
his system. I might have been a little dismissive of the issue at first as we were only using the
C++ standard library parallelism features. But after looking into it properly it did turn out that
GCC's libstdc++ depends on Intel TBB for parallelism. So if you are using libstdc++ you now need to
remember to have TBB if you want parallel drawing to work. Unfortunately GCC will silently remove the
parallelism if TBB is not found so we didn't catch this on any of our CI systems as they only have
the minimum of required dependencies installed. (#3608)

### Name unknown flags and variables

@Cgettys, myself, @shusaura85 all worked on identifying various flags, variables and other unknowns
in the codebase. Ideally we would like to have all save file and object file related data
identified before embarking on the NSF and NOF work. Its not terribly exciting work but I
personally quite enjoy finally assigning a name to something and understanding how it effects the
simulation. (#3512, #3615, #3571, #3600, #3550)

### Various refactoring and bugs

@AaronVanGeffen, myself, @ethan-xd, @ZehMatt, @LeeSpork, @LeftOfZen, all worked on various minor refactoring and minor
bugs. Checkout the changelog for details on the bugs.

## OpenGraphics

We made a mistake last month and accidentally didn't include all of the OpenGraphics objects that
had been created. We have corrected the issue and also @XXX created some further objects for
this release.
