---
title:      "OpenLoco version 24.12"
tagline:    "Release blog post"
author:     "Aaron van Geffen"
date:       2024-11-29 12:00:00 +0100
layout:     single
classes:    wide
categories: news

---

OpenLoco v24.12 is out! This release mainly focuses on bug fixes,
but there's some exciting changes under the hood as well!

For a complete summary of changes, please find the
[OpenLoco changelog](https://github.com/OpenLoco/OpenLoco/releases/tag/v24.12) on GitHub.

## Jukebox rework

The Locomotion jukebox features various tracks for the game's different eras. These can be played
in their original order, but you can also make your own playlist. There was an edge case, though,
where a playlist with your one favourite track would stop playing after that one track!
Fed up with this, new contributor @LeeSpork removed the cause in
[#2750](https://github.com/OpenLoco/OpenLoco/pull/2750). Moreover, he refactored the jukebox code,
so it now lives in its own compilation unit in [#2771](https://github.com/OpenLoco/OpenLoco/pull/2771).
Nice work!

## Paint interop removal

The game's various drawing routines for rendering the world viewport, called paint routines,
have all been implemented as of last most. This marked a huge milestone for the project, and while it
is still early days, we're already seeing the first benefits: we were able to drop all the so-called
interop code from the paint namespace. This code was used to interface between the vanilla Locomotion
game and our implementation while not all paint routines had been implemented in C++.
As of [#2772](https://github.com/OpenLoco/OpenLoco/pull/2772), this could all be removed!
Not only does this make the code quite a bit cleaner, it also paves the way for more advanced rework
in the future, such as multi-threaded rendering!



[#2782] Fix #2776, #2777. Bridge paint issues by @duncanspumpkin

[#2783] Implement Company Ai: Remove AiAllocated by @duncanspumpkin
[#2789] Implement Company Ai: AiAllocated Signals by @duncanspumpkin

[#2587] Implement train collision detection by @duncanspumpkin

[#2798] Fix #2785. Unique names for industries not respected by @duncanspumpkin

[#2799] Fix #2791. Cargo density incorrectly shown by @duncanspumpkin

[#2800] Fix #2778. News celebrating company bankruptcy by @duncanspumpkin

[#2806] Allow for zero frequency sound objects by @duncanspumpkin

[#2761] Fix #2716. Plugin.dat crash by @duncanspumpkin

