---
title:      "OpenLoco version 24.09"
tagline:    "Release blog post"
author:     "Duncan Frost"
date:       2024-09-01 21:30:00 +0100
layout:     single
classes:    wide
categories: news
---

OpenLoco v24.09 is out! In this release we have made a few little tweaks to the
landscape generation and implemented various vehicle functions.

For a complete summary of changes, please find the
[OpenLoco changelog](https://github.com/OpenLoco/OpenLoco/releases/tag/v24.09) on GitHub.

## Implement Update Track / Road Motion (#2174, #2588)

Vehicles travel along tracks and road in much the same way. There are fixed lanes that they can
travel with all positions along the lane precomputed. When a road vehicle needs to overtake it
enters/leaves an overtake lane. Moving along a lane is controled by the UpdateMotion family of
functions. With these functions a speed is converted into a distance travelled in a single update
tick and then it iteratively looks up the new positions in the precomputed lane data (sub position
data). In OpenRCT2 these functions were very complex and handled a lot of special case situations
for this reason we had been putting off doing them for some time. Recently I had taken a look at
a bug tangentially related to the function and realised they were really quite simple for
Locomotion. Although very simple these functions are called a huge amount of times so they
represent a huge amount of the code that was still running vanilla.

With both of these implemented it takes us another small step towards being able to add new track
or road pieces.

## Implement Paint Road (#2580)

Much like the track paint functions from [v24.02](https://openloco.io/news/2024/02/openloco-v24.02.html)
the road paint functions represent a huge chunk ~3% of the vanilla game. Like the track paint
functions they are repetitive and probably were automatically generated by some sort of code generator.
Annoyingly they don't share enough to use the same code as we did for track paint but we could use
the same technique (TestPaint) to generate our C++ version. With them implemented its another big
jump in percentage completed and another step towards being able to add new road pieces.

## Implement Create Airport Game Command (#2585, #2568, #2598, #2603)

On the implementing game commands project this month we finished off airport creation and track
removal. Airport creation a simple function that is very similar to the other building related 
game commands (Industry, Building, Docks) but it identified a slew of small mistakes we had made
in previously merged code. Issues:

  1. Sounds generated using the wrong random number generator. Turned out that there is one random
	 number generator used only for sounds and ui and another for game logic. We had accidentally
	 been using the game logic one for sounds. It doesn't really change anything but it would
	 have caused issues when it came to multiplayer.
  2. Large square stations couldn't be created. We had known for a few releases that our code for
	 finding nearby stations wasn't quite correct and would prevent 16x16 square stations. It
	 wasn't until Create Airport though until we had to solve that issue as it was causing a very
	 minor desync.
  3. Road vehicles may use the wrong track type when reversing. This is actually a vanilla mistake
	 which we accidentally duplicated. Its unlikely to cause any real difference as it appears this
     was only being looked at for working out max speeds on turns. But it is possible that this
	 might cause a crash. Eitherway its now corrected. It might seem odd that we found this whilst
	 doing an airport function but its because in the process of resolving the nearby station issue
	 I implemented another function that was also used by road station placement which surfaced this
	 bug.

## Implement Track Removal Game Command (#2571)

@AaronVanGeffen implemented the track removal game command this month. Much more straight forward
compared to track creation but still complex in its own ways. With this one implemented we now have
only 14/84 left to implement. Four of which are road versions of track commands, four that look to
be Ai only functions and the rest that are multiplayer related and might be able to be ignored.

## Implement Map Generator Terrain In Random Areas (#2594)

Another two functions from @AaronVanGeffen that finished off the last of the map generator! We
now have complete control over map generation and @AaronVanGeffen has been using these new powers
to start adding new features to the map generator (e.g. rivers, [ADD MORE]...).

## Implement Misc. Company Manager Functions (#2573, #2606)

Last week I thought I had implemented all of the functions that used the object index but I keep
finding one or two more misc. functions that still use it. This month it was the automatic company
selection that happens when you start a game or an Ai is spawned. Its not a complex function in C++
but in assembly it is very long and winding due to the complexity of the object index. Its great to
have it completed and hopefully this time its all of the functions that use the object index!
