---
title:      "OpenLoco version 24.11"
tagline:    "Release blog post"
author:     "Duncan Frost"
date:       2024-11-28 12:30:00 +0000
layout:     single
classes:    wide
categories: news

---

OpenLoco v24.11 is out! In this release we've added our initial OpenGraphics objects,
finished all of the 'paint' code, fixed a bunch of bugs.

For a complete summary of changes, please find the
[OpenLoco changelog](https://github.com/OpenLoco/OpenLoco/releases/tag/v24.11) on GitHub.

## Assorted bug fixes (#2623, #2676, #2678, #2690, #2691, #2708, #2717, #2721, #2723, #2726, #2729, #2731, #2732, #2735, #2752, #2770)

Its been a real bumper month of bug fixes. Myself, @LeftOfZen, @AaronVanGeffen and new contributor
@LeeSpork all fixed a bunch of crashes and bugs. Check the changelog for further details of all the
fixes. Please do keep identifying bugs and crashes and reporting them on Discord or on Github. The
main reason this month has had so many fixes is due to more reports rather than last months release
being particularly bug prone. If there is a particular bug that you know about that hasn't been 
fixed bring up the issue on Discord there might be a reason it can't be addressed or perhaps we
have just forgotten about it.

## Add initial OpenGraphics objects (#2697)

@SteveEmfore has created 7 vehicle objects for the OpenGraphics project. The OpenGraphics project
aims to create replacements for all vanilla objects. All of the objects will have slightly
different names and look different but the stats of the vehicles will be identical to vanilla.
It is planned that we will incrementally improve the objects. @DazWizzle has also created some
road vehicles for the project but they were not ready for this initial release.

Next month I plan to add basic asset pack support. The plan is that when the OpenLoco asset pack
is enabled any newly created scenarios will automatically switch objects to use the OpenGraphics
equivalent objects. Opening a save will not cause any object switching it will only work on
starting new scenarios. For now the default asset pack will be vanilla so there will be no
automatic object switching.

## Widget refactoring (#2674, #2675)

Continuing from last month @ZehMatt has been trying to improve the GUI widgets so that they work in
a more logical way. There is still a good bit to do on this but its slowly getting there. Once this
work is complete we should be able to simplify how creating UI windows work making it easier to add
new features.

## Misc audio refactoring (#2699, #2700)

New contributor @LeeSpork has been reworking the audio system this month. He has cleaned up and
simplified the music playlist selection. Audio in general is one area where we have fully
reimplemented all vanilla code so it is ripe for new features and general improvements. We look
forward to seeing what @LeeSpork has in mind.

## Finish the paint functions (#2737, #2738, #2744, #2755, #2757)

@ZehMatt expressed an interest in improving how the 'paint' system worked. The one issue though
was there was still one or two functions that hadn't been implemented preventing the improvements.
After a quick review of what was outstanding I decided to bash out the final functions. The final
functions were road stations, tram pylons, supports and bridges. Please be on the look out for any
display issues with those particular areas this release.

In the vanilla code the paint functions take up a huge percentage of the codebase ~20%. Its great
milestone knowing that that is finally behind us. With this system finished expect a bunch of
improvements in drawing over the coming months. We could add multithreading support to greatly
improve performance, split the UI from the viewport to allow scaling the UI and viewport
independently. Also with all this code implemented we know how everything is drawn in the game. If
you are a mod creator we can tell you exactly in what situations an image is used. We could also
add new drawing code for new mod features!

## Simulate and compare on CI (#2765)

To verify that we haven't accidentally changed the simulation of the game we like to run a couple
of saves for a fixed amount of time. You can then compare the result against a reference. As the
simulation is deterministic the two saves should always match. This has been very useful when
implementing new game commands but as its run locally by each developer it can often be forgotten.
@ZehMatt decided to fix this by running this test on the CI server which builds the game. For now
this can only be done after a change has been merged but at least we know straight away which pull
request broke things.
