---
title:      "OpenLoco version 24.10"
tagline:    "Release blog post"
author:     "Aaron van Geffen"
date:       2024-10-19 13:30:00 +0200
layout:     single
classes:    wide
categories: news

gallery_track_clipping:
  - url: https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b770518f-2de3-4997-8308-af7acae95652
    image_path: https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b770518f-2de3-4997-8308-af7acae95652
    alt: "Track clipping (before)"
    title: "Track clipping (before)"
  - url: https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b2688c9b-9b96-4cad-add2-95f9a9bb6cf5
    image_path: https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b2688c9b-9b96-4cad-add2-95f9a9bb6cf5
    alt: "Track clipping (after)"
    title: "Track clipping (after)"

gallery_object_selection:
  - url: https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d3759d7a-aca1-4ad7-9554-b5bd2f459537
    image_path: https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d3759d7a-aca1-4ad7-9554-b5bd2f459537
    alt: "Object selection (before)"
    title: "Object selection (before)"
  - url: https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/08e2bafe-1fbc-41a9-83ee-bb454985d048
    image_path: https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/08e2bafe-1fbc-41a9-83ee-bb454985d048
    alt: "Object selection (after)"
    title: "Object selection (after)"

gallery_chart_resize:
  - url: https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5dec9fe5-4e24-4162-9410-2a715080992a
    image_path: https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5dec9fe5-4e24-4162-9410-2a715080992a
    alt: "In-game charts (before)"
    title: "In-game charts (before)"
  - url: https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/db8755b8-375a-46b8-ba3c-8bfc8f492de2
    image_path: https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/db8755b8-375a-46b8-ba3c-8bfc8f492de2
    alt: "In-game charts (after)"
    title: "In-game charts (after)"
---

OpenLoco v24.10 is out! In this release we've added support for subfolders in
the object index, reimplemented chart drawing, started work on a new widget system,
and many other things!

For a complete summary of changes, please find the
[OpenLoco changelog](https://github.com/OpenLoco/OpenLoco/releases/tag/v24.10) on GitHub.

## First off: assorted bug fixes (#2623, #2625, #2653, #2658)

As usual, we start off with some bug fixes. While we're taking great care not to break the game
as we're reimplementing bits of it, we're only human, and do make mistakes. Often, it's
small assumptions that end up not holding.

First on the list is a crash that could occur when attempting to place a track underground.
Under some circumstances, this could lead to a negative Z coordinate, which is invalid in the game's
coordinate system. Oops!

Second is a crash that could occur when recalculting a vehicle's reliability. As it turns out,
this is hard to do if a vehicle doesn't have any cars or parts last, such as when you're selling
it gradually. It's a small code change, but selling no longer causes a crash now.

We continue with a more obscure crash: resizing the game window while a loading bar is open
could cause the game to crash! This needed a bit more shuffling of code, but in the end, the game
no longer crashes! As an added bonus, the loading bar is now repositioned when the game window
is resized. Nice!

Finally, and perhaps most impressively, some track rendering bugs were fixed. In previous reports,
we've detailed how the track 'paint' functions have been reimplemented. It turns out there were a
few unintuitive mistakes in bounding box calculations where track and track additions were concerned.
In some edge cases, entire vehicles could temporarily clip out of existence! We include an extreme
example below, and what it's supposed to look like.

{% include gallery id="gallery_track_clipping" %}

## Updates to object index and selection (#2629, #2650)

A frequent request we've gotten over the years, is to allow the game object data to be organised in a more
flexible way. In order for this to be possible, the full object manager and index code needed to be
reimplemented. Good news, we're at that point! This month, Duncan reworked the object index code,
such that the index process now recurses into subfolders. Moreover, you can now put object data files
in the OpenLoco folder, as well as your OpenLoco user folder. This way, you can keep your custom objects
separate from the vanilla object files, making it easier to revert in case of a buggy one.

This brings us to the object selection window. There are many object types in the game, which can make
the advanced and expert modes more than a little puzzling. This month, we've changed things such that
related object types now appear together. This is done in a way analogous to the vehicles tab, which was
already using sub-tabs for each of the vehicle types.

Grouping these items together brings the number of main object tabs down from 20 (advanced) or 34 (expert)
to just 12. This makes the window less cluttered, and thereby hopefully makes it easier to find the right tab.

Before / after:

{% include gallery id="gallery_object_selection" %}

## Replacing loco_globals with state structs (#2607, #2639, #2640, #2641)

In the process of reimplementing all Locomotion functions in C++, we have to interface with the original
game's memory space. We achieve this by means of a structure we call `loco_global`s. As time progresses,
we rely less and less on 'vanilla' memory space, and as such we can replace these globals with our own
structs. This month, we've continued work on doing just that.

The construction window now uses a `ConstructionState` struct, replacing 70 `loco_global`s. This will
hopefully make it easier to extend the construction window in the future.

On a smaller scale, the windows for the various news styles (newspaper, plain window, ticker) now use
a new `NewsState` struct, replacing 10 `loco_global`s. This has also allowed us to massively simplify
the way the news windows' interactive "photo" viewports get initialised, making the code safer, more
robust, and more readable.

Finally, the graphs in company list window now use a `GraphSettings` struct, replacing 25 `loco_global`s.
This also sets the stage for the next item on our list...

## Implement chart/graph drawing and allow resizing charts (#2646, #2666)

While the company list window had been reimplemented in C++ for a few years, we still relied on the
vanilla routines to actually draw the various charts available. This month, this was finally tackled.

Not all of the graph settings were understood yet, but reimplementing the code gradually revealed their
meanings. Our C++ implementation quickly opened up the possibility of resizing the chart windows,
examples of which can be seen below. In the future, we could even add a few more charts!

Before / after:

{% include gallery id="gallery_chart_resize" %}


## Implement various town and scenario functions (#2632, #2633, #2636, #2637)

 Implement scenario reset functions (#2632) <Aaron van Geffen>
 Implement TownManager::initialiseTown (#2633) <Aaron van Geffen>
 Implement TownManager::generateTownName and callees (#2636) <Aaron van Geffen>
 Implement Town::updateLabel (#2637) <Aaron van Geffen>

## Widget system refactor work (#2635, #2642, #2659, #2669)

 Refactor widgets to use separate types and events (#2635) <Matt>
 More widgets refactoring (#2642) <Matt>
 Refactor some things related to widget index (#2659) <Matt>
 Refactor groupbox widgets to new widget system (#2669) <Aaron van Geffen>
