---
title:      "OpenLoco version 24.07"
tagline:    "Release blog post"
author:     "Duncan Frost"
date:       2024-07-21 15:00:00 +0100
layout:     single
classes:    wide
categories: news
---

OpenLoco v24.07 is out! All changes under the hood this month with one or two bug fixes.

For a complete summary of changes, please find the
[changelog](https://github.com/OpenLoco/OpenLoco/releases/tag/v24.07) on GitHub.

## Game Commands: Place Vehicle (#2508)

A little quite on the game commands front this month. I implemented the main place vehicle
game command. There wasn't much of note in it that wasn't already known.

## Implement Graphics Engine Consumer Functions (#2513, #2517, #2524)

With the whole graphics engine implemented we really want to break it out of the main
library and start improving it. But before we can do that properly we need to have implmented
all users of the graphics engine. This month I implemented the draw vehicle overview, draw
vehicle in-line and draw road preview functions. There isn't very much at all now that is
left to implement that consumes the graphics engine so hopefully very soon we can start the
improvements.

## Implement Misc Setup Functions (#2515, #2518, #2519)

@ZehMatt implemented a number of setup functions this month. They aren't terribly exciting,
generally just zeroing out certain memory on scenario start but its all important work to
reach a state where we are standalone.

## Graphics Engine Improvements (#2516, #2530, #2533)

@ZehMatt the graphics engine expert made a few further improvements to the graphics engine
this month mainly tidying things up after last months big re-work.

## Use TilePos2 for Heightmap Access (#2511)

@ShuraxN continued his contributions from last month this time tidying up how we access the
heightmap in the Scenario Editor. When we implemented these functions we hadn't decided what
fundamental type we were going to use for (x, y) coordinates, so made a new type just for
heightmap. Later on when we had decided on (TilePos2) no one had gone back to the heightmap
code and made it use them. That is finally addressed and we can sleep happy knowing the codebase
is a tiny bit more consistent.

## Company Update Functions (#2528, #2484)

On discord @Phobos2390 asked the question:

> Has the actual calculation of performance index been ported?

The answer was no but could easily be done as we knew which function it was. So I decided to
go and implement it. @Phobos2390 was wanting it implemented so that he could make a tool to
identify why you have the rating you have. With it now implemented we are looking forward to
what @Phobos2390 comes up with.

## Animation Update Functions (#2531, #2536)

Whenever there is an animation on a tile element there is a corresponding animation update
function. This function handles invalidating the screen and updating the frame of the animation.
This month we finished off the last of the animation functions: Signal, Level Crossing, Airport, Port.
It has helped understand more of how the Airport and Port object format works. So if you are
working on a custom one of those objects I suggest having a look at the implementation.
