---
title:      "OpenLoco version 24.06"
tagline:    "Release blog post"
author:     "Duncan Frost"
date:       2024-06-28 21:00:00 +0100
layout:     single
classes:    wide
categories: news
---

OpenLoco v24.06 is out! Its been a little quite this month as many of the team members have had holidays. This has lead to a short changelog but there was still a good number of changes under the hood.

For a complete summary of changes, please find the
[changelog](https://github.com/OpenLoco/OpenLoco/releases/tag/v24.06) on GitHub.

## Game Commands: Remove Road Station (#2422), Remove Airport (#2454), Vehicle Place Water (#2482)

Aaron and myself continued the game commands project this month implementing the remove road station and airport commands. There wasn't anything too note worthy we found from implementing the functions but it does take us ever closer to the completion of the game commands project. There are now only 17 of 80 game commands left to do!

## Paint Surface (#2459)

As mentioned in other posts the paint functions setup the drawing of tile elements. One the largest paint functions left was for the surface elements. Fortunately it wasn't overly complex just a long function. The code was mostly similar to OpenRCT2 but for Locomotion a couple areas had been completely reworked. Cliff edges for example work very differently and are considerably more complex compared to RCT2. Along the way I found an interesting bug in Locomotion, if for some reason you manage to put more than 8 tunnels in the same surface element all facing the same way you might crash the game! It seems at some point 8 tunnels was meant to be the limit but later on it was increased to 16 but not all of the checks were modified. This issue has now been fixed.

## Implement Final Graphics Engine Functions (#2485, #2487, #2489)

@ZehMatt and myself finished off the graphics engine this month. One of the functions `drawImageMasked` is quite an interesting function. What this function does is take two input images and uses one image to mask the other image i.e. if the pixel is 255 on the mask image then the pixel in the image is drawn. This function existed back in RCT2 but wasn't used anywhere near as often as it is in Locomtion. For example all cliff edges on surface elements use masking in Locomotion to achieve a much better look compared to RCT2.

## Refactor Graphics Engine (#2479, #2480, #2495, #2496, #2498, #2507)

With the graphics rendering functions complete @ZehMatt could start refactoring and trying to split out the engine into a standalone component. There is still further work to do but this will greatly improve the layout in the code and allow us to improve test coverage.

## Standardise Function Names (#2503)

New contributor @ShuraxN has been helping to improve the codebase by standardising a couple of functions names. This PR was focused on `rotation` and `sequenceIndex` which we had called `direction`, `unkDirection`, `multiTileIndex` in various places. Its a little change but should simplify things for any contributors.

