---
title:      "OpenLoco version 25.06"
tagline:    "Release blog post"
author:     "Duncan Frost"
date:       2025-06-30 16:30:00 +0100
layout:     single
classes:    wide
categories: news
---

OpenLoco v25.06 is out! The summer months are often quite quiet so it has mostly been behind the
scenes company AI work. For a summary of changes,
please find the [changelog](https://github.com/OpenLoco/OpenLoco/releases/tag/v25.06) on GitHub.


## Company AI implementation

The Company AI is mostly implemented now with the exception of the routefinding. Last month I
started implementing some of routefinding logic that selected available track/road types this
month though was all about actually choosing the route to take. Its ultimately quite a simple
algorithm it simply tries to place one of the available track pieces evaluates its suitability
then recursively tries to the place the next piece. If it can't place a piece or it reaches the
destination it will stop trying to place more. If it encounters a major issue it can also
backtrack a limited amount. The AI will only try this for ~10 pieces at a time so if there is a
major obstacle it can go quite wrong. After it has tried all these placements it then selects the
best one based on suitability and places an AI ghost. It will then on the next tick repeat this
process until it has reached the destination. This does mean that the AI throws out a lot of work
at the end of each tick so there is room for improvement here.

With this part now implemented all that remains is the logic for handling track/road merging with
routefinding. The logic for this will hopefully be tackled next month and then AI will finally be
finished!

## Update Available Road and Rail Options

@petergaal has been quitely working on a few of the remaining object setup functions. This month it
was the available road and rail options. This sets the default selection for when you select road
or track from the top toolbar.

## Split Win32 Symbols

@AaronVanGeffen decided that the Windows binaries for releases are too large. The reason they are
bigger than they absolutely need to be is that we ship the debug symbols with the release. The
symbols are typically ~16MB whilst the actual binary is ~4MB. If you aren't a developer the symbols
are pretty useless. So Aaron has now split it up into a separate file.
